---
layout: article
title: Getting started with ResVault
author: Apratim Shukla
tags: NexRes
aside:
    toc: true
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#000000'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(0, 204, 154 , .2), rgba(51, 154, 154, .2))'
    src: /assets/images/resdb-gettingstarted/code_close_up.jpeg

---

ResVault is a chrome extension that serves as a wallet for ResilientDB. The wallet allows you to commit and retrieve data from ResilientDB and provides user account creation and deletion. It communicates with ResilientDB using the NexRes GraphQL server and enables transaction logging.

# Prerequisites
### Setup NexRes
Go to our [install tutorial](https://blog.resilientdb.com/2022/09/28/GettingStartedNexRes.html) for instructions on how to setup and run NexRes.

### Setup NexRes GraphQL server
- You will need to clone the NexRes GraphQL repo to get started:
  > git clone https://github.com/ResilientApp/NexresGraphQL.git

- Then navigate inside the NexResGraphQL directory:
  > cd NexresGraphQL

- Install the dependencies.
  > python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt

- Activate the virtual environment
  > source venv/bin/activate

- Start the GraphQL server.
  > python3 app.py

In case of any errors follow the detailed debugging [README](https://github.com/ResilientApp/NexresGraphQL/blob/main/README.md)

# Setup Wallet
### Build from source code
You can generate the wallet build using the ResVault source code. To do this:
- Download NodeJS from [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download) and ensure that it's added to PATH.

- Clone the ResVault repo to get started:
  > git clone https://github.com/ResilientApp/ResVault.git

- Then navigate inside the ResVault directory:
  > cd ResVault

- Install the dependencies.
  > npm install

- Build the wallet.
  > npm run build

- You will see the following message if build was successful: 
  ```
    The build folder is ready to be deployed.
    You may serve it with a static server:

    serve -s build

    Find out more about deployment here:

    https://cra.link/deployment
  ```
- The build will now be available in `build` directory inside the ResVault directory.

### Add build to chrome
Once you have generated the build:
- Open chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`

- Make sure developer mode is enabled using the toggle button.

- Finally, load the extension by clicking on load unpacked button and then select the `build` folder that was created in the previous step.

- Now you can open the wallet from the extension button and start using it!

### Add release to chrome
Alternatively, you can use the release from the ResVault repo instead of generating your own build. To do this:

- Download the latest build.zip from [here](https://github.com/ResilientApp/ResVault/releases).

- Extract the contents in a new directory.

- Open chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`

- Make sure developer mode is enabled using the toggle button.

- Finally, load the extension by clicking on load unpacked button and then select the directory where you extracted the contents previously.

- Now you can open the wallet from the extension button and start using it!

### Usage
In order to use the ResVault chrome extension ensure that you have KV server and NexRes GraphQL server running in the terminal windows:

- One terminal window should run: `bazel-bin/sdk_client/crow_service_main example/kv_client_config.config` after navigating inside the NexRes directory.

- The other terminal window should run: `sh example/start_kv_server.sh` after navigating inside the NexRes directory.

- The final terminal window should run: `python3 app.py` after navigating inside the NexResGraphQL directory. 

#### Demo video
Now you can use ResVault as shown in the video:
_Coming soon_

The next tutorial will elaborate on how to develop web applications to communicate with the NexRes wallet.