---
layout: article
title: Simplifying Database Interactions with ResDB ORM
author: gopal
tags: ResilientDB ResDBORM Python
aside:
   toc: true
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#000000'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(0, 204, 154 , .2), rgba(51, 154, 154, .2))'
    src: /assets/images/resdb-orm/database_code.jpeg
---

**ResDB ORM is a Python module designed to streamline interactions with ResilientDB’s key-value store database. It provides basic CRUD operations, making it easier for developers to integrate ResilientDB into their applications.**

[https://github.com/ResilientEcosystem/ResDB-ORM](https://github.com/ResilientEcosystem/ResDB-ORM)

## 🌐 Why Use ResDB ORM?

Interacting with databases can often involve writing repetitive and complex code, especially when it comes to handling basic operations such as creating, reading, updating, and deleting data. The **ResDB ORM** library aims to abstract these operations, allowing developers to focus on the business logic of their applications rather than the intricacies of database management.

Here are some key advantages of using ResDB ORM:

- **Ease of Use**: ResDB ORM abstracts complex database interactions into simple Python methods.
- **Reduced Boilerplate Code**: Developers can perform CRUD operations without writing repetitive SQL queries.


## 🔍 Features of ResDB ORM

- **CRUD Operations**: ResDB ORM provides methods for creating, reading, updating, and deleting records.
- **Pythonic API**: The library offers a Python-friendly interface that seamlessly integrates with other Python-based projects.
- **Error Handling**: Includes built-in error handling mechanisms to manage exceptions during database operations.

## 👨🏻‍💻 Getting Started with ResDB ORM

### **Step 1: Installation**

To start using ResDB ORM, follow the instructions available on the resdb-orm repository:

```
https://github.com/ResilientEcosystem/ResDB-ORM/blob/main/README.md
```

### **Step 2: Setting Up Your Project**

Once ResDB ORM is installed, you can start using it in your Python project. Here’s a quick guide to get you started.

1. Importing ResDB ORM:
    Begin by importing the ResDB ORM module into your Python script:
    ```python
    from resdb_orm import ResDBORM
    ```

2. Establishing a Connection:
    You need to establish a connection to your ResilientDB instance, update the `config.yaml` file with the crow server details:
    ```python
    db = ResDBORM()
    ```

3. Performing CRUD Operations:
    With the connection established, you can now perform CRUD operations.

    - **Create**:
    To create a new record in the database, use the `create` method:
    ```python
    data = {"name": "abc", "age": 123}
    create_response = db.create(data)
    ```

    - **Read**:
    To read data from the database, use the `read` method:
    ```python
    read_response = db.read(create_response)
    print(read_response)
    ```

    - **Update**:
    Updating an existing record is done using the `update` method:
    ```python
    update_response = db.update(create_response, {"name": "def", "age": 456})
    ```

    - **Delete**:
    To delete a record, use the `delete` method:
    ```python
    delete_response = db.delete(create_response)
    ```

## 🎉 Conclusion
ResDB ORM simplifies database interactions for developers working with ResilientDB. By abstracting the complexities of database operations, it allows developers to focus on building robust and scalable applications. Whether you're managing simple CRUD operations or complex version-based data, ResDB ORM provides a reliable and Pythonic solution.

